Hi, I'm Aakash Jha, a soon-to-be fourth-year student in the Civil Engineering
                    Department. I am from Mumbai and I completed my summer internship as an
                    analyst at Axis Bank.
After my third semester, I participated in the WIDS program by the Analytics
                    Club, where I completed a bootcamp and a project. This experience sparked
                    my interest in machine learning, leading me to take a minor course in
                    Introduction to Machine Learning. Additionally, I pursued various online
                    courses and completed projects in this field. Later, I interned at Deloitte as an
                    Analyst.
These experiences solidified my desire to work in a role involving machine
                    learning. However, I also had an inclination towards quantitative finance due
                    to my completion of a course on algo trading..So, basically the profiles that I
                    was targeting were data science,quant finance and software(as I had done
                    some dsa and competitive programming in the past).
                
As I prepared for interviews in these domains, I learned from seniors that
                    companies often ask puzzle and probability questions alongside technical
                    ones. To prepare, I studied two books: "Fifty Challenging Questions in
                    Probability" and "Heard on the Street."
Initially, my chances were impacted by not having a high CPI during the
                    internship season. Many companies in my target domains had either internal
                    CPI cutoffs or limited openings for non-circuital branches. I really liked Axis
                    Bank IAF as its JD had all the elements that I was looking for.The initial round
                    had two straightforward coding questions based on maps and sets. I was
                    among the five shortlisted candidates for the final round, where they asked
                    questions about my projects, a guesstimate, and easy puzzle. Three of us
                    were ultimately selected, and I was one of them.
During my internship at Axis Bank, I appreciated the fact that it was entirely
                    office-based. I was assigned to the Retail Deposits Team of Axis BIU, where
                    my responsibilities included creating a star schema data model and an
                    automated dashboard using SAS VIYA. Additionally, I developed a customer
                    deepening model to predict the deepening of our mapped customers. Despite
                    the hectic travel, I thoroughly enjoyed my experience because I was
                    passionate about the work I was doing.
For those targeting the data science domain, my advice is to not only focus on
                    resume preparation and puzzle-solving but also invest some time in
                    
                    strengthening your data structures and algorithms skills. Companies in the
                    data science field often include coding questions in their test rounds, and you
                    wouldn't want to miss out on opportunities due to this aspect. You can practise
                    coding questions using the provided link. Moreover, remember that the
                    internship season can be unpredictable, so don't get demotivated if you don't
                    secure an internship right away. If you have worked hard, you will eventually
                    find a good opportunity. Best of luck! Feel free to reach out to me if you need
                    any assistance.

            The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
          
Microsites
Legal Stuff

        Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
