
                Hello everyone, this is Amit Kumar Mallik, a fourth-year
                undergraduate in Computer Science and Engineering. My primary
                research interests are Graph Theory, Combinatorics and
                Algorithms. Apart from academics, I am into hiking, cycling,
                adventure, travelling etc. This summer, I did a research
                internship under the supervision of Prof. Sándor Fekete, TU
                Braunschweig. This (pretty long) blog is about my internship
                experience. So, let’s dive into it
              

                My third-year internship is intermingled with my second-year
                internship. So, let me first share about that. In my second
                year, I applied via PT Cell to TU Braunschweig. The selection
                was based on a resume-based shortlist followed by an interview.
                The interview was not at all technical and very chill. The
                professor focused on knowing our academic interests,
                expectations from this internship, previous experience in
                algorithms and just getting to know us as a person. I remember
                discussing cycling with the professor in the middle of the
                interview :). Finally, all of us who appeared for the interview
                got selected for the internship (surprising but yeah xD). The
                internship was online that year. But, the professor mentioned at
                the end that even though the internship had to be online, we
                could come to Braunschweig sometime later!
              

                In my third year, I initially tried to do apping. I was warned
                before that apping is very stressful and time-consuming. But, I
                also realized that apping in a theoretical field like this is
                significantly more challenging than in other fields. That is
                because it takes a lot of time to make some sense out of a
                research paper in these fields (especially Graph Theory). Also,
                I was very very selective in terms of research interests and
                because of that, I was left with only a few professors to mail.
                Most of the time, I didn’t get any reply and sometimes I got a
                negative reply. In the end, I mailed Prof. Sándor for a research
                internship and he agreed.
              

                Now, with everything settled with the professor, it was time to
                apply for a visa. While the process is usually very streamlined
                and quick (it takes around 15 days to get the visa and some of
                my friends even got it in 5 days during the winter!), there were
                some novel challenges this time. The German Consulate
                misinterpreted this internship as a work internship and hence
                asked for a work permit. The professor was already in the
                process of sorting out this issue with the Consulate so I waited
                for it. And by the time the issue got sorted, there were no
                appointments left! It was a very busy season with a lot of
                people applying for the Schengen Visa. Luckily, I got an
                appointment and landed in Germany in June, a month later than
                what was planned earlier.
              

                In any theoretical research, you start with reading some
                research papers and try to find some “tractable” and “open”
                problems. This can take quite a bit of time. You don’t want to
                reinvent the wheel. But, at the same time, you also want the
                problem not to be insanely hard so that you can at least make
                some progress. While the first part is not that hard as you have
                to look into other papers citing the paper at hand, the second
                part is purely a judgement which professors can estimate to some
                extent by their experience. So you try the problem for some
                time, get a feel as to what makes that problem so hard that it
                is still open, discuss the problem and progress with the
                professor and either decide to continue working on this problem
                or go back to the first step. Sometimes, the professors already
                have a problem in mind in which case you are lucky!
              

                The path here was no different. Since I arrived late, my
                co-interns had already identified 2-3 problems and were getting
                a feel for them. I joined them and started analysing those
                problems. Apart from the initial few weeks, I had mostly worked
                on “packing” and “covering” problems. In a nutshell, packing
                squares in a square problem is to find the minimum number A such
                that ANY set of squares with total area A can be “packed” into
                the unit square. Since the packing squares in a square problem
                was already solved, we thought about packing cubes in a cube.
                That turned out to be an easy extension of the proof in the 2D
                case! So we tried some more related problems like packing
                spheres in a cube or cubes in a sphere but as you can imagine,
                those quickly turned out to be nasty with pi and square roots.
              

                Not making much progress on that side, in the last month I
                started to look at some covering problems starting with the
                square with squares case. This again was already solved but I
                tried to think about it myself and critically go through the
                argument in the paper. Suddenly, an idea struck me and the
                argument looked incorrect. Well, it wasn’t :). It was just that
                the paper considered only axis-aligned squares while I was also
                considering rotation. From that erupted this curiosity, what if
                we were allowed to rotate the squares? This looked to be a nice,
                open and tractable problem and I quickly switched my attention
                to this. Over the month, we discovered a lower bound example and
                proved the upper bound for exactly 2 or 3 squares. Well, this
                isn’t it and a lot more is left to be done. We are still trying
                to prove it for any number of squares and will carry forward
                this work in the upcoming semester!
              

                Well, research and all is one aspect, but going to Germany and
                just sitting in your room is simply foolishness :) The professor
                knew that we would love to travel around Europe. He was pretty
                cool with that. The workload was pretty flexible but we would
                typically go to the university throughout the weekdays and plan
                out some trips for the weekend. You can explore the breadth of
                Europe by visiting various countries or explore certain places
                in depth. I have mostly travelled to scenic places in Germany
                itself. We went to a nearby town for an easy hike. We then
                cycled back to Braunschweig, which was roughly 60kms, through
                the country roads. That ride is the most scenic ride of my life
                so far :).
              

                I had been to a nice beach in Sylt (also known as the vacation
                island). It was quite peaceful and lovely riding on the coastal
                roads. The North Sea is usually too cold to take a dip, even in
                summers! Also, I, being a passionate hiker, used to go to the
                Bavarian Alps every weekend in July :). I will rather just drop
                in a picture from Zugspitze, the highest peak in Germany, and
                leave the rest of the looooong story to some other day.
              

                Planning your finances is a crucial aspect of your offline internship. There are certain things where you have no other choice but to spend (like accommodation) and some where you can save a lot if you are a bit cautious (like food). There are 3 possibilities 
                
You spend a LOT on food by eating outside or in mess.
                    
 You buy extra baggage allowance and bring a LOT of cheap ready-to-eat packets to sustain yourself for the entire duration (or a part of it).
                    
Start cooking!
                    



I started cooking here so that I could eat a lot of healthy food at reasonable prices and that worked out pretty well. I didn’t know anything about cooking before the internship and all the cooking that I know now is due to my “desi” flatmates and conversations with my parents. Well, that’s a valuable life skill that I acquired during the internship :)
            
There is one important myth buster that I would like to convey. Undergraduate Research, especially in theoretical fields, is highly student-driven. You choose a problem of your interest, work on it and discuss your observations with the professor. Ofc the professor would help you choose the problem and would suggest to you certain approaches that might work. But, in the end, it’s your responsibility to work on it and discuss it with the professor. It’s not like the professor is going to analyze the problem and assign you some work or so. If you are fond of analogy, you are in the driving seat and the professor beside you. He will suggest directions but you are driving the car and it goes where you drive it to. You won’t learn much if the professor is in the driving seat and you just see him driving! Don’t get worried or intimidated by this just be mentally prepared for this before your internship starts.   
Research is a long process. Two months is a very short time to get a tangible output in general. It would be beneficial if you could start reading research papers and try to identify problems before the internship begins. Also, do consider following up on your work with the professor after your internship is over. That way, you will gain the most out of your internship. 

                Research also needs a lot of effort and patience. You need to believe in yourself and keep working on the problem. Most of the time you will be struggling at the ground level making partial progress which at times doesn’t feel like progress. But, suddenly you may get a spark, an idea and within no time you will make significant progress or at times just solve the problem itself! Yes, you guessed it right, Eureka! You never know how far in time the Eureka moment is, so just have faith and keep trying :)
                
With that said, I wish you all the best for your internship season and your actual internship. Feel free to reach out to me for any queries regarding internship season or research and ofc I would be happy to suggest you hikes in Germany (:

                
Adios
                

            The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
          
Microsites
Legal Stuff

        Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
