Hi junta!!

                This is a short post about my internship experience at Siemens.
                I am a 4th year undergrad at MEMS department and I interned at
                Siemens from a work from home setup in the summer of ’22.
              

                At the end of my 2nd year, I was quite sure that I wanted to go
                into tech, so I applied only for IT/software and analytics
                profiles. But since I did not have much coding experience, I
                didn’t get shortlisted in IT/software companies. I was a bit
                disappointed and started doubting myself, but I didn’t give up
                and promised myself that there was light at the end of this
                tunnel.
              

                After about two and a half months of getting very limited
                shortlists, I found out about Siemens in the 3rd week of
                October, through its IAF via the internship portal from PT cell.
                There wasn’t much given in the description but there were
                actually a variety of project topics for which you could get
                shortlisted but topic selection could not be done beforehand and
                was allotted by the company itself based on your resume.
              

                I quickly signed up for it as Siemens is an MNC and has base in
                several countries around the world, and also because it had
                applications of ML in one of their projects’ descriptions. The
                previous seniors who had interned there had had a pretty good
                experience and my decision was reinforced. Plus, there was no
                coding test, which was a big plus point for me😊, as I didn’t
                have much of a coding profile.
              

                The interview selection process had just one aptitude test along
                with resume shortlist. As for the interview, there was only one
                round and the interviewer was also pretty chill. I was asked
                about some of the projects on my resume and my motivation for
                working on the problem statement which they had described.
                Luckily there was no HR round. Talking to seniors proved to be
                really helpful while preparing for the interview.
              

                I did not prepare anything company specific as such, as I didn’t
                know about the company beforehand, but I did have a background
                in machine learning, which I learnt initially from Coursera xD,
                and from a couple of ML projects from my minor courses in the
                C-MlnDS department. Before the interview, I brushed up on basic
                ML algorithms like KNN, Decision Trees and Neural Networks,
                mostly about how they work and how they can be applied in
                different problem statements.
              

                The profile of the internship was more on the R&D side. I was
                selected for the digital twin section of their research
                department; you can read more about this on their website. And
                so, my work was not exactly on ML but the overall problem
                statement had applications for ML. The team I was assigned to
                was working on developing a state-of-the-art algorithm which
                could give us the differences between two versions of the same
                data in a short amount of time. Several techniques had already
                been invented to solve this but the computation time was huge
                for larger input file sizes. So, essentially my task was to go
                through a few research papers on this topic, understand their
                logic and try to come up with an implementation. I thoroughly
                enjoyed the project as it was something I had never done before.
                The learning curve was a bit steep but interesting and
                entertaining at the same time. My supervisors were very
                supportive and encouraging. They were easily approachable
                (online only though☹) and ready to help you out even on the
                smallest issues.
              

                The internship was entirely online and although there was a
                fixed working schedule, it didn’t really feel as much due to the
                WFH setup. You could login when you wanted and log off when you
                felt done for the day. I had regular meetings with my team
                everyday which really helped in overcoming the difficulties I
                faced along the way. The one great thing about a WFH setup is
                the awesome advantage of eating delicious, home-cooked food all
                while working from the comfort of your home!
              

                Since most of my work involved reading research papers and
                implementing it, the WFH setup didn’t have much of an impact on
                the work front. But there was a lack of interaction and exposure
                from other teams and the projects other groups were working on
                due to the online format. I feel that in-person interaction is
                very important to grow as an individual as there is only so much
                you can do through a Teams meet. The communication is much
                richer and more vibrant and one can learn lots by communicating
                directly with the people in the company, an experience which I
                was devoid of.
              

                Overall, it has been a great experience, full of challenges and
                getting to learn new stuff along the way. My advice to all the
                juniors preparing for the internship season would be to have
                faith in your skills. At times it can feel low and discouraging
                if you are not getting shortlisted in many of the companies you
                apply to, but remember this is just a phase and you will get
                through it no matter what. I also want to stress on the resume
                front, you should be fully thorough with your resume, know every
                word you put there and be ready to defend it in the interviews
                (having a decent CPI grants you extra brownie points too). In
                case of interviews for ML profiles, you will be asked mostly
                about your projects and their inner workings. Have a good grasp
                and you will sail through the process effortlessly. Just believe
                in yourself, have confidence and you will make it in no time!
              

            The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
          
Microsites
Legal Stuff

        Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
