
                Hey everyone! I am Kunind Sahu, a BTech thirdie (to-be-fourthie)
                in the MEMS department. I’m super enthused by applied ML -
                especially Graph Machine Learning. I also love to play video
                games and watch thriller/horror shows. Yes! I’m back to bore you
                with yet another long write-up, this time about my summer
                experience as an Analyst Intern at American Express in their
                Credit Fraud and Risk Wing. So, without further ado, let’s get
                into it.
              

                Points 1-5 talk about my experience in the internship season and
                AmEx’s selection process. Points 6-8 talk about my actual
                internship experience.
              

                    I kinda had an idea of what I wanted to do - I wanted to go
                    for roles which involved Machine Learning - essentially the
                    analytics domain (although not the entirety of it). I was
                    sure that I wasn’t interested in applying for roles along
                    the lines of ‘business analyst’ because they were
                    non-technical in nature.
                  

                    The basic idea was that I had done a second year summer
                    research internship - where I was exposed to how Machine
                    Learning was being employed in an academic setting. This
                    time around, I wanted to experience the corporate world and
                    how Machine Learning was being used in the industry - maybe
                    in some kind of industrial RnD or some applied Machine
                    Learning.
                  

                    Although I did not enjoy software development much, I
                    nevertheless decided on applying for some software
                    development roles as well. I had done a course on Options
                    Pricing over the summers through Finsearch, organized by
                    Finance Club - that got me all interested in the field of
                    quantitative finance as well, so I applied to a few quant
                    finance roles too. In summary, the profiles I decided to go
                    for were - Analytics (ML), Software, Quant Finance.
                  

                    I have written in detail about my internship season
                    preparation right here.
                  

                    The internship season was nerve wracking to say the least.
                    As I’d mentioned above, I wanted to work with ML in the
                    corporate setting - either an RnD role or some good
                    application based ML role. Unfortunately, mostly, none of
                    the Day 1 companies were open for my department (only open
                    for CS, Elec and sometimes BS Math) - which, it goes without
                    saying, was quite demotivating. Apart from one company
                    (Optiver), Day 1 went by without much activity with respect
                    to shortlists/selections.
                  

                    The American Express IAF had opened just after the Day 1
                    companies announced their results. Their job profile fit
                    well with my expectations of my third year summer
                    internship. American Express was hiring in their Credit
                    Fraud and Risk (CFR) division for the upcoming summer. The
                    CFR team is responsible for developing state-of-the-art
                    Fraud Detection models to prevent credit card fraud and
                    catch possible defaulting clients.The fact that I had quite
                    recently done a course project on Credit Card Fraud
                    detection made me all the more excited about this role.
                    Interesting team? Check. Good work? Check. Great company?
                    Check. The IAF was immediately signed ;)
                  

                    AmEx is a financial services company, which issues its own
                    credit cards and corporate cards - which are invite-only. It
                    usually tends to operate in the premium high spending
                    segments. In this way, it is different from Visa and
                    Mastercard.
                  

                    Any credit card transaction has three entities associated
                    with it. You have the consumer, who’s buying a commodity
                    with their credit card, you have the merchant who accepts
                    the card and sells the commodity, and then you have the
                    technology network over which this transaction takes place
                    (Visa, Mastercard or AmEx). Let’s assume the customer’s bank
                    is HDFC, the transaction network is Visa and the Merchant’s
                    bank is SBI.
                  

                    Visa and Mastercard don’t issue their own credit cards -
                    they are issued by the respective banks. In our above
                    example - the customer’s data is held by HDFC Bank, the
                    transaction information (and metadata) is held by Visa and
                    the merchant’s information is held by SBI. No single entity
                    has access to the complete data about the transaction here.
                  

                    This is where AmEx comes in. AmEx issues its own cards -
                    thus AmEx has complete information about any of its credit
                    card transactions - information about the customer, about
                    the transaction and that of the merchant. This forms a
                    closed loop, which AmEx leverages in its ML models to make
                    them state-of-the-art. Having access to the complete data
                    enables them to better capture fraud and mitigate potential
                    risks. Additionally, it was the very first company to deploy
                    an ML based fraud detection model in service (2014).
                  

                    Thankfully, there were no DSA rounds in the AmEx selection
                    process The selection process involved:
                  
a. Resume Shortlisting

                    b. ML Based Test (Those who did well were shortlisted for
                    the interviews) Which comprised very easy MCQ questions on
                    Machine Learning (basic ML knowledge was required to ace the
                    test)
                  

                    c. Interview (2 Rounds) 
                    The interview comprised two rounds - none of them were
                    really demarcated as Technical / HR. Both kinds of questions
                    were asked in both rounds. The major focus of the interviews
                    was my resume, specifically, the projects I did, especially
                    the one on credit card fraud detection. We had worked quite
                    extensively (tried many techniques, quite a few of which
                    failed) - which made for quite an amazing discussion 
                    I was pretty familiar with the mathematical details and
                    workings of all the algorithms I had implemented in my
                    projects - thus I tried to steer the interview in that
                    direction. I did go quite deep into the mathematical aspects
                    of the algorithms I had used. Apart from the resume, a few
                    AmEx specific questions to know if I knew about the company
                    and two puzzles. All in all, I left the interview feeling
                    quite confident about my performance.They had also asked me
                    about my project preference - either Big Data & Machine
                    Learning or Data Analysis. I chose the former
                  

                    I was looking forward to an offline corporate experience and
                    getting to interact with all my co-interns from other
                    colleges. Although, to our dismay, the internship was being
                    conducted in an online mode. Although, internally, AmEx had
                    this policy where employees could voluntarily choose to come
                    to the office. Once I got to know this, I discussed it with
                    my Manager and packed my bags and left for Gurgaon ASAP!
                  

                    My project could be considered as an applied RnD. It mainly
                    revolved around applying Unsupervised Machine Learning, ML
                    model explainability techniques to understand model outputs
                    and prescriptive analysis, to a problem the company was
                    facing.
                  

                    Oh boy, I’m so glad that I chose to go to Gurgaon and work
                    in the office rather than working from home. AmEx owned an
                    entire building in the One Horizon Center campus in DLF
                    Phase 5 Gurgaon (although that was not its best office in
                    Gurgaon. The best office, which was on the top floor in the
                    main building of One Horizon Center - was closed :/). I got
                    to meet my immediate and the extended team and was able to
                    network with all of them (atleast when they did come to the
                    office haha). AmEx had this awesome complimentary cab
                    service which could be availed to travel to and from the
                    office from your residence. Additionally, the workspace was
                    quite open and there was a huge monitor on each workspace -
                    (a dream for any programmer!).
                  

                    Talking about Gurgaon, I was kinda let down by the city -
                    especially by a not-so-vibrant street food culture, even
                    though Delhi was so close. But yeah, we did explore the city
                    a lot and found some good places to eat (Sector 46!). My PG
                    flatmates (the ones from IITB) and I did go out over the
                    weekends and went around - especially to places in Delhi. I
                    did have many insti friends interning in Delhi, one of whom
                    claimed that Delhi was much much better than Mumbai
                    (personal attack) and I was expecting that friend to show me
                    around. Long story short - don’t expect anything of your
                    consulting friends XD.
                  

                    I was working on the team of the very same VP who’d
                    interviewed me. Mid-way during the internship, he had taken
                    out the entire team managed by him - including the
                    directors, managers and all the other levels had out for a
                    treat! There were many such outings I had with my team.
                    Haha, one of the perks of taking extra efforts and going to
                    Gurgaon all the way from Mumbai and working from the office
                    (and being a super enthusiastic intern xD).
                  

                    My team had this culture, where everyone met every Friday
                    evening to chill out and play team games :). Codenames,
                    Skribbl, Drawbattle, Psych – we played it all. Well, I had a
                    suspicion that I was really good at Pictionary and Dumb
                    Charades, but it was always hypothesized on small sample
                    sizes. Now that I actually played with my team, it more or
                    less checked out XD. The AmEx work culture is nice and
                    supportive and people there are really helpful and eager to
                    help you out. Anyway, this is pretty much how it went until
                    the first week of July, by which time I had my end-term
                    presentation.
                  

                    Frankly, I’m glad that I chose to go to the office and work
                    from there - I was able to network with people (though not
                    as much as I would have been able to if things were
                    completely offline, but hey, it was something) - all in all
                    it was an enthralling corporate experience - something which
                    I’ll certainly remember.
                  

                    I’d say that the internship was more about applying the
                    skills I was already familiar with - to try to solve a
                    problem the company was facing. Nevertheless, I did learn
                    quite a few things - improved command line scripting,
                    knowledge of new state of the art ML algorithms and patience
                    (:P) when the ML algorithms are running (I was manipulating
                    a massive real life dataset comprising 3 years’ worth of
                    data - even with AmEx’s strong hardware, it took some time
                    to process).
                  

                    It was nice to know AmEx’s business practices and their
                    usage of closed loop to create awesome ML models and
                    leveraging all that information to improve upon their
                    services. Last but not the least, and one of the most
                    underrated of the lot - presentation and communication
                    skills. It was super important to present my work and
                    findings well - the people watching my presentation would be
                    from diverse backgrounds (technical / non-technical), many
                    of whom were not at all familiar with what I’m doing.
                  

                    Yeah yeah, I’m finally done with this yet another overly
                    prolix and unnecessarily detailed write-up about yet another
                    internship experience of mine (*sheepish smile*). On a
                    serious note, the internship season is a good experience to
                    have. Its also a great opportunity to learn more about your
                    preferences and interests. Yeah, Day 1 companies are great,
                    but it doesn’t mean that if you don’t get “Day 1”, the
                    internship season is over for you. Not at all! Quite the
                    contrary in fact, there are many good companies which don’t
                    come on Day 1 - AmEx being one of them. Actively look out
                    for such opportunities around you, which are to your liking
                    and of course, do ask the interviewers more about the job
                    profile and the kind of work that would possibly be allotted
                    to you.
                  

                    Also, I can’t stress on this enough, please please please
                    keep in constant contact with your friends; keep talking to
                    them, prepare together, it’ll help improve both of your
                    moods and would kinda act as a morale booster. Internship
                    season is of course a super important period (and super
                    stressful too) in your stay here at IITB. There are surely
                    going to be times when you are going to feel really down and
                    not up for it - talking to your friends would always help
                    you out. Also, it isn’t a zero sum game, help them and let
                    them help you - don’t compete with them, rather, walk
                    together :). Thank you soo much for staying with me until
                    the end of this long monologue-ish story write-up. Another
                    shout out to Insight for giving me this opportunity to pen
                    down my thoughts (read: blabber) about my internship. All
                    the best! Do feel free to contact me, I’d be happy to help
                    in whatever way I can!
                  

            The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
          
Microsites
Legal Stuff

        Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
