
                                Hii everyone welcome to my oversharing blog, I'm
                                gonna be taking you through my experience as a
                                Data Science Consulting Intern at World Wide
                                Technology and the process that led up to it.
                                Before beginning to read just remember: If
                                brevity is the soul of wit, I am not witty.
                                (tldr nahi milega)
                            

                                Muskaan, Elec DD, also Chief Ed at Insight,
                                intern season made me want to die have a phone
                                call with God, I had the coolest two months of
                                my life in which I umm jumped off a cliff, wrote
                                a ton of code, had the best ice cream ever and
                                spent 15 hours making a 5 minute presentation 😀
                            

                                Now let's dive right in! (Credits to
                                Madhumitha's mom for the joke)
                            

                                So, I had a pretty terrible start with intern
                                season. I attended the Software Intern workshop
                                and learnt that I will never get an internship
                                in my life because I know nothing about coding
                                and I am in dual degree. I attended the Finance
                                Intern workshop and learnt a bit about the
                                interview process and that I will never get an
                                internship because DD. I did not attend the
                                Consult Intern workshop.
                            

                                I was basically frozen and stressed and in
                                despair, nothing seemed to help, I used to
                                scroll through InstiApp at 4AM like a zombie but
                                did absolutely nothing to prepare. Once the
                                resume deadline rolled over, I used my ~Insight
                                Editor and ex-Lit con~ skills to write
                                "fancy"-sounding points and resolved to increase
                                my CPI that sem (it did not).
                            

                                I got two shortlists throughout the season.
                                One was an FMCG firm, which I was very proud of
                                because before the shortlist, we filled out a
                                form talking about our skills and values and in
                                the "Advanced Knowledge or Special Skills"
                                question I wrote nail art… Anyway I got
                                rejected
                                Around a month and a half later, I received some
                                very perspective-changing advice. "Play the long
                                game. The purpose of intern season isn't to land
                                an internship, it's to develop the skill of
                                finding internships that you think are valuable.
                                And if at the end of one year you don't have
                                one, it's really not going to matter as long as
                                you've understood how to search for one, how to
                                ask the right questions to yourself (and others)
                                to figure out what you like, and learnt things
                                that will help you for the rest of your
                                professional life, not just the next recruitment
                                season."
                                A week after this I was offered an internship at
                                World Wide Technology (WWT).
                                Things really did go uphill after that, because
                                for the winters I also managed to become part of
                                a fellowship program related to fintech policy,
                                something I'd wanted to try out since ages.
                            

                                The internship was offline, and all I can say
                                is– Gurgaon is a major vibe. Extremely pretty
                                places, great DJs and random tiny chaat stalls
                                really added to our first "adulthood
                                experience".
                            

                                Despite the profile name, our projects were
                                quite Data Science-centric and WWT ensured an
                                enriching experience for us by assigning us all
                                R&D projects so we could spend time exploring
                                different possibilities without the pressure of
                                targets and deadlines. I worked mainly on audio
                                and video analytics and got a bit of exposure to
                                MLOps. I also learnt a great deal about the
                                different ways in which deep learning-based
                                solutions are created for clients. The
                                "Consulting" part of Data Science Consulting
                                came in because we were able to have one-on-one
                                chats with pretty much everybody on the WWT team
                                - right from data engineers and sustainability
                                analysts, to operations and HR, to, well,
                                consultants and engagement managers.
                            

                                One of the most insightful conversations I had
                                was when I asked for feedback from my project
                                manager, who also happened to be the firm's
                                Chief Data Scientist. A 15-minute chat with him
                                completely transformed my perspective on what it
                                means to debug, to understand what data tries to
                                tell us, and to be a data scientist.
                            

                                All in all, it seemed like the perfect way to
                                spend a summer and was the first time in months
                                that I didn't have something new to stress about
                                every week. The work-life balance was great and
                                the team had very fun people – they even
                                organised a trip to Rishikesh (hence the
                                cliff-jumping).
                            

                                Coming to things I could have done better, I do
                                wish I had been more confident in the start of
                                the internship itself (we are not mentioning
                                intern season again) and initiated more
                                conversations myself. I would have also loved
                                more time to try out things in my project that I
                                didn't get to by the end of 8 weeks.
                            

                                Something y'all should keep in mind is that an
                                internship (and life i guess??) will be a lot
                                more valuable if you think of it as discovering
                                your capability of driving things the way you
                                want them to be (as opposed to waiting for the
                                perfect company, perfect role, perfect team).
                                This is exactly why it doesn't matter as much
                                where you end up interning (or anything else you
                                decide to do next summer) - it's a lot more
                                about what you can make of it.
                            

                                Here's also some out-of-context advice from my
                                DMs.
                            

                                I'd encourage you to be more mindful of what
                                you're doing, and spend more time thinking about
                                what you want from life, aside from just your
                                career. Think about the kind of lifestyle you
                                might want, the work culture that aligns with
                                it, what sort of compromises you might be
                                willing to make and the kind of career growth
                                you're looking for.
                            

                                Also, if I had read this blog last year I
                                would've definitely said something like "wth is
                                growth I just want to chill". So if you don't
                                feel like doing anything at the moment, just
                                give yourself time. The things you want out of
                                life will keep changing. Everything is temporary
                                – likes, dislikes, moods, aspirations, meme
                                accounts, thoughts and perspectives.
                            

                        The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
                    
Microsites
Legal Stuff

                Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
