
                Hello there, I’m an undergraduate student in the Energy Science
                and Engineering Department - yes, a DD student writing about his
                intern, so you have an idea of what to expect. By the time you
                read this, I should have been accepted for an IDDDP in CMInDS
                with an MTech in AI & Data Science, with these two being what my
                professional interests have converged on. I am currently
                interning as a Student Research Assistant under Prof. Nils
                Kriege at Universität Wien in Vienna, Austria, and writing this
                on the 81st day of my 89-day Europe trip work-visa permitted
                stay in the Schengen region.
              

                I did not start the internship season wanting to do research. I
                was fresh out of a very eye-opening internship with an Indian
                think-tank; it had made me realise that I did not want to work
                in my department’s non-core area (the profile was
                energy-consulting but in a less consult environment, iykwim). I
                had been dabbling in Machine Learning through my CS minor and
                found it *chef's kiss*; I was pursuing a project in the
                time-series domain with a professor in collaboration with a
                Germany-based start-up in the summer (this eventually collapsed
                in a marvellous fashion, so not as impressive as it sounds).
              

                Still, I thought it would be hard for me to level with my peers
                who had been familiar with ML since their first year. I knew no
                seniors interested in core ML and had no interest in
                diversifying into Computer Vision yet (if you have even heard
                about ML, you know how popular CV is). Come July, I was left
                with practising a lot of DSA, revising a ton of ML concepts and
                the only thing I had finished on time was my resume, which was
                lacklustre by the standards of a good tech resume.
              

                And yes, I panicked a little. But this is where my DD status
                came in; the thought that almost no company would open for me
                calmed me down - you can’t fail at an opportunity you never got
                *finger guns*. I was mainly looking for well-paid ML RnD roles
                (I was more of a sellout back then), and through days of looking
                at companies, I realised that only 3-4 such positions would be
                opening up for me in the first two months, and they would have
                sky-high levels of competition (damn you, EE department kids).
                Still, I diverted my focus on practising whatever coding I could
                (all hail Hackerrank) and sat through hours of
                
                  Kylian Weinberger's golden lecture offerings
                at Cornell, which I did not end up finishing, but the effort
                counts.
              

                For the underprepared (most of us, really), the entire intern
                season is like going to the gym for the first time. You’re
                extremely nervous and afraid of being the only inexperienced one
                there, and it doesn’t help that the guys around you look like
                beefcakes benching 220 pounds casually. I was giving tests for
                whatever software company opened up with even a remote mention
                of ML, and any parallel aspirations I had of getting into
                non-core companies went down the drain with their pre-final year
                restrictions. Getting through core software tests was tough
                enough as it is with my make-shift DSA skills, and when the ML
                RnD companies started shortlisting me for interviews, they were
                all looking for people with CV in their basket.
              

                By the end of September, I had given seven interviews and been
                rejected in all of them. IAFs opening for profiles I wanted
                became scant, and almost all of my friends had internships by
                then. I realised the anxiety accompanying intern season was
                taking a toll on me. I had a 53-credit semester going on and
                desperately needed a break - I completely pulled out from the
                process. I had picked up an RnD with the same professor from my
                previous project, on Graph Machine Learning, and diverted my
                focus to my academics so that I would have some semblance of
                progress in ML.
              

                At this time, the senior I was working with on my RnD asked
                about my intern season, and that one half-hour talk did wonders.
                She encouraged me to apply to professors internationally,
                introduced me to DAAD (Graph ML is big daddy in German
                Universities) and assuaged my insecurities about my branch
                negatively affecting my chances - professors really don’t care
                about branches if they think you’re good enough at what you do.
                My DD branch provided the flexibility to work in a 4th-year
                internship if I wanted to, so a 3rd-year research intern sounded
                like a good idea. I was getting more and more habituated to
                reading literature in ML through the RnD, and eventually decided
                to start applying to European and American professors because I
                now had a somewhat educated idea about their work. I created
                professor databases, started monitoring whether they were
                looking to accept students and getting up at odd times to mail
                them - LDAP mail scheduling is not a thing.
              

                Come November, and I had ZERO replies on the day of the DAAD
                deadline. Still, I shrugged it off and diversified to regular
                apping to non-German professors, even putting a Day 1 intern
                friend to unpaid work on my database. Eventually, he found Prof.
                Kriege, and I got called for an interview. He had a smaller team
                and was actively looking for students to work under him, and I
                got the sense that I would be held to higher expectations. And
                surely enough, he made me write an entire research proposal in
                the months of February and March as opposed to just an SoP to
                secure funding under his program.
              
Austria, but with a picture of a rainy Budapest, Hungary

                I’m here for the maximum time my temporary work visa would allow
                me to be, and I will say I have enjoyed my intern. I meet my
                professor weekly to discuss problems and results; the ideation
                was more or less finished by my first three weeks as I had
                already worked on the proposal. Talking about my research, I’m
                basically trying to figure out if two nodes in a graph are
                similar using their neighbourhoods. Once that was implemented, I
                extended the (secret) idea to different types of graphs and
                continuous node feature embeddings extracted using neural
                methods. The method is simple enough, and I had to implement the
                entire codebase from scratch while also verifying the
                effectiveness on datasets that were either available or I
                created. Very often, mental breakthroughs came from staring at
                drawings like the one below. Pretty much standard research :D
              

                I had never travelled internationally, let alone doing so alone.
                Living in Vienna for the last three months has been a very
                unusual yet warming experience; I’ve learnt how to cook
                (barely), take care of household chores, develop my own
                work-life balance and become comfortable with living
                independently. Hopefully, if you plan to do an intern in Europe
                too, you’ll have a ton of friends with the same idea - if not,
                then you’ll probably make friends with the IITB people there
                anyway.
              

                I have been convinced, well enough, that I want to pursue a
                career in Machine Learning, and I’m actively leveraging the
                confidence and experience this intern has given me to apply to
                other projects and eventually corporate RnD internships. This
                was not what I planned to do when I was in your place (if you’re
                a third-year student at IITB), but it all worked out in the end.
                And trust me, so will it with you. Intern season can be a
                behemoth to tackle, and I think my unique take on it is that
                it’s okay to take a break from the race once in a while, if that
                means you’ll be returning with a stronger resolve. And if you
                want to ditch the race altogether, there are countless
                opportunities out there to apply to, with the only condition
                that you look for them. All the best, and feel free to look for
                me if you have any questions or even just want to talk! :)
              

            The one stop solution for news at IIT Bombay.
          
Microsites
Legal Stuff

        Copyright © 2022 InSight, IIT Bombay
